how to have stale element ?
xml runner
how to run everyrthing
from terminal
run single class, package, method
Frameworks
module based
data driver
keyword drivern
hybrid
page object model
bdd
tell me aboutt your framework
what's new in the final framework
tools
design
what type tests
package
utilities
reporting
oop concepts
how to create framework from scratch
STALE ELEMENT exception
you get staleementexception when the element is no longer attached to the DOM.
page or part of page reloaded between the time we located the element and we want to
interact with it
1. locate the element again
2. use page object model
3. loop
	 	 for 10 seconds{
	 	 	 try
	 	 	 	 click
break
	 	 	 catch staleexception
	 	 	 	 wait 1 sec

	 	 }
xml
suite
	 	 test
	 	 	 package
	 	 	 	 class
	 	 	 	 	 @TEst test method
@Parameters("browser") --> this method get a parameter from xml runner
"browser" --> name of the parameter
 @Parameters("browser")
 public void setup(@Optional String browser)
xml file, @Parameters("browser"), the method signature must use the same param name
@Optional --> if xml file does not pass the parameter, or if no parameter at all, do not throw
exception
mvn commands will run the pom file
pom files will run the xml
xml runner run the login tests. xml runners actuallly are the ones which target the java classes
and run them.
mvn verify
mvn verify --> it runs a maven goal called verify.
if we run with no parameters, it runs the hardcoded runner in the pom file
mvn verify -Drunner=regression.xml
we use this when we want to run specific file.
-D --> we use this option when we pass variable from terminal
runner --> name of the parameter
regression.xml --> value of the parameter
mvn verify -P Parameterized -Drunner=regression.xml
-P Parameterized --> run profile called parametrized
run a profile called parametrized, use resression.xml
mvn clean verify : we are running 2 maven goals in the same command. it will run the clean
command to delete the target folder
then it will run the verify command to run the test and generate reports.
mvn clean verify -P Parameterized -Drunner="regression.xml"
mvn clean verify -P Parallel
Framework?
it is a set of tools connected to each other
skeleton
design patterns
test automation framework system or an environment where we generate and execute
tests. Test automation framework utilities multiple tools, design concepts in order to efficiently
generate, execute and report automated tests. They use different practices, package
structures, patters to make them understandable, easy to maintain, easy to scale, easy to
expand , easy to troubleshoot, be more modular, reusable.
Types of automation frameworks.
Module based frameworks
Data driven framework
Keyword driven framework
Behavior driven framework
Hybrid framework
Page object model based framework
Module based frameworks
 We organize tests based on the module/component which they are testing. In my Vytrack
application we have such modules as calendar events, vehicles, contacts, accounts etc. and in
our framework we have package for each modules. So when we want to do component based
testing and run all tests related to one module, we can target that folder.
Data driven framework TDD
In DTF, tests are separated from the test data. And add allows to run single test cases against
multiple sets of data without any code change. In DTF we have class, utilities that manage
reading and writing from those files. Sources can be excel, csv, db, api
Keyword driven framework
Similar to TDD and uses external files like excel, csv to controls the test. But in KDF those files
control the test flow. Excel file has which tests we run, to steps, keywords and also locators/
objects.
If it is implemented correctly, manual tests can write the test cases and add to the excel file.
KDF will run the automatically.
Behavior driven framework
Focuses on business logic or functionalities. We have reusable methods that are based o
business flow. Uses given, when, then keywords.
Page object model based framework
Framework where we create object repository based on the pages of the application. In ours
vytrack application we have pages like login, createcalendarevernts etc…
Allows separating selenium logic from the test logic.
Hybrid framework
A framework that uses elements of more than one test automation framework designs.
how to create framework from scratch
If my project has no experience with automation, first I have meeting with my team to discuss
the tools and designs we can use for my framework. Based team discussion we used
selenium with testng.
• Create maven project
• Add dependencies
• Create packages
• Add utils, test base, properties
• Add page objects
• Automate 1 scenario
• Add reporting
Once basic framework is ready I did a demo to my team on how it is running automated tests,
and generating html reports. I showed an option on how it can take screenshots on failures.
How did you use OOP concepts in your framework?
Encapsulation
driver class
pages class
Inheritance
Test Base
BasePage
Abstraction
BasePage
page object model
Polymorphism
we have methods where we use methods overloading in our browser utility, driver class.
WebDriver driver = new ChromeDriver();
List<String> list = new ArrayList()<>;
How did you use Collections in your gramework?